lhof]s[lif g]t[Tj sfo{s|d

PROBLEMS FACED BY SMALL URBAN FARMERS IN
GROWING CUCURBITS
Astha Pokharel and Samip Raj Poudel
Summary:
The survey was conducted in order to know problems on disease and insects in
cucurbits growing farmers in Kaski and Morang district where problems on pests
i.e., fruit fly and leaf miner were found dominantly prevalent. Perception of
farmers on applying various control measures for the pest attack was known i.e.
Pheromone trap whose effectiveness in controlling the pest is reported as70% and
severity of damage by the pests on the basis of different crop stages were also
identified. This survey was done in order to broaden farmers' knowledge on
digital applications where the majority of them were still unknown with this
design. Finally a few recommendations on pesticides application and using digital
media as an alternative to solve ongoing problems on fields were carried out and
the findings were concluded.
Introduction:
Agriculture production contributes thirty-two.sixty percent of GDP in which vegetable
contribution is nine.seven percent in Nepalese economy. In Nepal, Cucurbits are
cultivated in the summer season. A Lot of farmers, kitchen gardeners also
cultivated cucurbits in their field. Cucurbits encompass a diverse group of annual
and perennial species, several of which are of commercial importance worldwide.
Cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.), melon (Cucumis melo L.), pumpkin, squash and
gourd (Cucurbita spp.), and watermelon [(Citrullus lanatus (Thunb.) Matsum. &
Nakai] comprise the major cucurbits. Among cucurbits, Cucumber, one of the
most important members of cucurbits in Nepal, is very popular among Nepalese
consumers as it is used in various forms, such as salad, pickle and cooked
vegetable. At present, it has subsistence as well as commercial importance, but it
is a potential crop for processing in the future. It is basically a summer season
crop grown both in the hills and Terai region of Nepal. However during this time
of the year, the yields of the commercial varieties are extremely low because of
environmental stresses, such as high temperature, high rainfall and long day
photoperiod.

one|Page

lhof]s[lif g]t[Tj sfo{s|d
There are various disease and insect pests seen in cucurbits such as Downy
mildew, powdery mildew, gummy stem blight and Fruit fly, Red pumpkin beetle,
Yellow woolly borer etc. respectively in the local community. Para-pheromone
trap has become a common tool in commercial cucurbit cultivation in Nepal,
however, timely unavailable, poor in quality and high cost involvement are the
major constraints. Many types of insect pest like red pumpkin beetle, fruit fly,
spotted beetle etc. attack the cucurbits plants at different stages of different parts
such as stem, leaves, inflorescence and fruits. It is reported that the various insect
pests such as aphid, spotted beetle, fruit fly, red pumpkin beetle, green stink bug,
whitefly etc have been seen in the open field. Determining what extent of the pest
is present in the field and their severity as well as finding the effective control
method of the pest is the interest of all agriculturists and farmers. So, the
recommendation is required to establish to manage the pest and it helps growers
to minimize the losses from these pests by adopting appropriate effective
management methods.
Objectives:
Primary Objective:
• To determine the problems encountered by small urban farmers in growing
cucurbits.
Secondary Objective:
• To analyse the socio-demographic status of respondents in the study area.
• To determine the cultivation practices adopted by the farmers for the
management of insect pests.
• To assist farmers to be familiar with Geo Krishi App.
Methodology:
Survey was conducted in urban areas of Kaski and Morang District about the
problem faced by farmers. This Terai area of Nepal have hot and humid summer,
cold and dry winter consisting pH of five and fluvial non calcareous soil according
to soil mapping (NSSRC). We had surveys taken of local respondents where some
are farmers and kitchen gardeners based on questionnaires prepared. We
discussed their problems and what cultivation practices they followed while
growing cucurbits. Survey of urban farmers of ages thirty-fifty in June two thousand and twenty-one which
consists of ten households in Morang district and ten households in Kaski district
through interview. The following procedures are followed:
one. Firstly, the field observation, the problem of farmers visiting the field and
analysing were done.
two. Preparation of questionnaires on the basis of visit were the activity carried
after analyses.
two|Page

lhof]s[lif g]t[Tj sfo{s|d
three. Pre-testing was done with some of the respondents and necessary
amendments were made.
four. Finally, the collected data was analysed and a report was made based on a
questionnaire.
Result and Discussion:
•

•

•

•
•

•

In Morang district, it was found that people who grow cucurbits in their
field have serious insect infestation rather than disease. Though, diseases
such as Powdery mildew, Mosaic are major diseases prevalent in Morang
district faced by urban farmers and they used to spray insecticides as
recommended by agro vet.
Most serious issues they had been talking about cucurbits is fruit fly
infestation in cucumbers, summer squash, and Bitter gourd. They used a
pheromone trap in their field in which seventy-five% fruit fly infestation has been
controlled.
Majority of people don’t have enough storage to download the app. So it
has been a great challenge for us to install and guide the application
process.
Almost all people recommend agro vet for proper care of plants and they
trust the agro vet fully about all the practices they face.
In urban areas of Biratnagar-one, people haven’t got support from
cooperatives as only one / two cooperatives were found nearby. They said
that they didn’t get involved in any training conducted by provinces or
cooperatives.
The major plant grown by farmers in Morang district:
Cucurbits, Pea, Okra, Maize

three|Page

lhof]s[lif g]t[Tj sfo{s|d
The above pie chart shows that fifty%land was occupied by cucurbits family
with major growing bitter gourds in this area. Many people suffer from
blood pressure problems. According to a survey done, at least one member
of each household suffers from the High B.P problem resulting in higher
preference given to bitter gourd than other cucurbits. Preference of
cucurbits in maximum households:
•

Bitter Gourd> cucumber> summer squash> sponge gourd > bottle gourd

•

seventy% urban farmers are giving positive responses on smart phones while
the rest thirty% don’t use smartphones. This represents that most farmers are
using smartphones and they are familiar with it i.e. they either use
Facebook and TikTok in their phone mostly.

Respondents regarding smartphone

•

Out of seventy% respondents, thirty% give a positive response towards the
app and the remaining say that there is not enough storage in mobile
and they will not be comfortable using the app and they need time
to be familiar with it.

Fig: Response on using GeoKrishi App
four|Page

lhof]s[lif g]t[Tj sfo{s|d
•

•
•
•

•
•

•

•

•

•
•

In Kaski district, most of the respondents (seventy%) said to be in their 30s and
40s and most of them mentioned service (fifty%) to be the primary
occupation followed by business (thirty%). All of them were financially stable
and almost all of them (ninety%) do not practice commercial farming.
Most of them (sixty%) had a small land area of less than one ropani while forty%
of them performed rooftop farming.
The respondents reported that they perform mix farming of seasonal
vegetables. Only forty% each reported cultivating maize and twenty% millet.
Wide range of vegetables were found to be cultivated. Currently, based on
the cultivated area cucurbits were common followed by beans, tomato,
garlic, okra and spinach.
Based on land coverage, the most popular cucurbits were sponge gourd,
pumpkin, bitter gourd, cucumber, bottle gourd, and snake gourd.
They weren’t hiring any expertise in the cultivation and use to grow based
on traditional knowledge. They reported using improved seedling bought
from local agro vets. Agro vets were found the sole source of knowledge
and information to farmers. thirty% of them were members of cooperatives
but none of them are getting any aid from cooperatives. None of them have
had any farmers training.
Fruit fly was found to be the most serious pest problem to the respondent
with almost all of them (ninety%) reporting incidence of fruit fly, and (seventy%)
reporting incidence of leaf miner.
Plant diseases were also found to be a problem with fifty% of respondents
reporting incidence of diseases like downy mildew, powdery mildew,
damping off.
Yellow sticky traps and pheromone traps were found to be the most
common control measures with ninety% using them. Only twenty% reported to be
using chemical control, this being associated with the desire of people to
eat organic vegetables.
Only ten% of them use other cultural measures for pest control.
Almost all of them (ninety%) found using smartphones but none of them were
familiar with any agriculture related mobile apps.

Problems faced by the farmers
•

•

The major problems faced by the farmers of the both areas was found to be
insect infestation. Leaf miner and fruit fly incidence were high both in
Morang and in Kaski
Gummy stem blight was more prevalent in Morang which resulted in vine
wilting, whereas different forms of mildew were reported highly in
Pokhara.

five|Page

lhof]s[lif g]t[Tj sfo{s|d
•

•

•

Almost all of the people consider farming as a secondary occupation or
merely a hobby so they prefer organic farming rather than use of
chemicals.
There certainly is a lack of space and manure for the farmers. In the places
where terrace farming is practiced, there has not been much investment
involved.
Regarding using apps, they feel it is difficult to use it and don’t have
enough space in smartphones.

Suggestions:
•
•
•
•
•

People were highly dependent on agro vets. Capacity development
programs can be launched.
Training and guidance should be conducted by local level or any
cooperatives nearby.
Encouragement of Organic practices not in individual but also throughout
community level.
Use of the internet and e- media to provide technical resources and
guidance.
The e-commerce market can foster in these places.

Conclusion:
The survey focuses on problems of urban farmers regarding disease and pests.
Through this survey, we better know about the problem faced in agricultural
practices by farmers. Among diseases and pests, infestation of fruit flies is a major
problem and they used a pheromone trap to eliminate it. Overall, farmers at least
know about the agricultural app through this survey and some farmers get a keen
interest regarding the app while some farmers didn’t respond firstly. Farmers
applauded the decision support system, market price provide system and disease
identification system of the application. If the application addressed the problems
of these type of farmers, we believe that the interest of the respondents will
increase slowly.

six|Page

